Add a documentation about Messenger's transports (#11331)
symfony/symfony-docs: components/messenger/transports.rst

.. index::
    single: Messenger; Transports

Transports
==========

To send and receive messages via message brokers, the Messenger component has
"transports". Transports are responsible for routing messages to and from
the message brokers.

> Every transport is configurable using a DSN. This DSN allows you to chose the

Reviewer: Should be "[...] allows you to choose [...]"

transport layer as well as configure it.

AMQP
----

The most famous message broker protocol is probably AMQP, which is most
commonly implemented with RabbitMQ. The Messenger component has built-in
support for AMQP.

> How it works?

Reviewer 2: Small grammar fix:

```suggestion
How does it work?
```

Reviewer 3: In fact it should be "How Does it Work" according to our headlining rules. ;)

Reviewer 2: Fixed :)

~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> A DSN protocol that uses ``amqp`` is recognized and sent to the built-in AMQP transport.

Reviewer 4: DSN isn’t a protocol isn’t it?

Author: @OskarStark the idea is to remove only `protocol` word? or change it to something else?

Reviewer 2: maybe:
```suggestion
A DSN that starts with ``amqp://`` is recognized and used to create an instance of the built-in AMQP transport.
```

Reviewer 4: Good suggestion, thank you @greg0ire

Author: thanks!

> For example::

Reviewer 4: Could we remove this „for example“ and instead add another sentence to the paragraph before and end with „::“ ?

Author: @OskarStark sorry, not clearly understand for what we need to add instead of removed one?

Reviewer 4: Let’s write:

... sent to the built-in AMQP transport::

And remove the “for example...” line completely

Author: thanks!

>     $dsn = 'amqp://user:password@localhost/%2f/messages'

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    $dsn = 'amqp://user:password@localhost/%2f/messages';
```

The messages will be sent to the ``messages`` exchange bound to the ``messages``
queue on the ``/`` vhost (the ``%2f`` is a url-encoded ``/``).

> .. note:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. note::
```

> .. note:

Reviewer: Should use double colon: `.. note::`. I'm also not completely sure about this note. Documenting third party behaviour is a bit scary, as documentation needs to be updated when they change their defaults. Is it hard to find for RabbitMQ what its default are? If it is, let's keep it, otherwise I propose to remove the note.

    By default, RabbitMQ uses ``guest`` as a username and ``guest`` as a password
    and has a ``/`` vhost.

> Error handling

Reviewer: This should be "Error Handling" (we capitialize all non-closed class words in titles)

Reviewer: And is this special behavior for AMQP, or is it general behavior of the Message component? (I'm asking because the title underline makes it part of the "AMQP" section)

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If something wrong happens (i.e. an exception is thrown) while handling your message,

> the default behaviour is that your message will be "NACK" and requeued.

Reviewer 3: Just a quick note (I didn't scan the rest of the PR in greater detail): we use American English in the documentation. So here it should be "behavior".

However, if your exception implements the ``RejectMessageExceptionInterface`` interface,
the message will be rejected from the queue.

Retry
~~~~~

When receiving a message from a broker, it might happen that some exceptions will
arise. Typically, a 3rd party provider is down or your system is under heavy load
and can't really process some messages. To handle this scenario, there is a built-in
retry mechanism that can be enabled via your DSN::

>     amqp://guest:guest@localhost/%2f/messages

Reviewer 4: this looks like an `sprintf` but no value given for `%2f` 🤔 

Please use `sprintf` with a value or use `.. code-block:: terminal` instead

Reviewer 5: This is the correct string - no sprintf - it’s an Amqp thing - the vhost I believe

Reviewer 4: Ok but then no :: php code block

.. code-block:: bash ???

      ?retry[attempts]=3
      &retry[ttl][0]=10000
      &retry[ttl][1]=30000
      &retry[ttl][2]=60000

In the example above, if handling the message fails, it will retry it 3 times. After

> the first failure, it will wait 10 seconds before trying it. After the 2nd failure,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the first failure, it will wait 10 seconds before trying it. After the second failure,
```

or do we have a "standard"? friendly ping @symfony/team-symfony-docs

Reviewer: Yeah, sort of (flexible standard). If you're using low numbers and count things, you often use the text version in english. For just numbers or large counts, you use the numeric version.

it will wait 30 seconds. After the 3rd failure, it will wait a minute. If it still
fails, the message will be moved to a "dead queue" and you will have to manually
handle this message.

> DSN configuration reference

Reviewer 4: DSN Configuration Reference

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The options available in the DSN are documented on the ``Connection`` class
in the code repository.

Enqueue
-------

Probably one of the most famous PHP queue-broker libraries, Enqueue, has 10+ adapters
with brokers like Kafka, Google Pub/Sub, AWS SQS and more. Check out the transport
documentation in `Enqueue's official repository`_.

> Your own transport

Reviewer: "Your own Transport"

------------------

> If there is no available transport for your message broker, you can easily

Reviewer: To be friendly for new people (or people that just don't understand this concept), we should remove "easily" here.

create your own.

> Your own sender

Reviewer 4: Your own Sender

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Using the ``SenderInterface``, you can easily create your own message sender.

> Let's say you already have an ``ImportantAction`` message going through the

Reviewer: Please remove "let's" here (we never use first person language in the docs)

message bus and handled by a handler. Now, you also want to send this message as

> an email.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
an email via your sender::
```

??

> First, create your sender::

Reviewer 4: this could then be removed
```suggestion

```

>     namespace App\MessageSender;

Reviewer: We always start code examples with a comment indicating the file name (`// src/MessageSender/ImportantActionToEmailSender.php`)

    use App\Message\ImportantAction;
    use Symfony\Component\Messenger\Transport\SenderInterface;

    class ImportantActionToEmailSender implements SenderInterface
    {
       private $toEmail;
       private $mailer;

       public function __construct(\Swift_Mailer $mailer, string $toEmail)
       {
           $this->mailer = $mailer;
           $this->toEmail = $toEmail;
       }

       public function send($message)
       {
           if (!$message instanceof ImportantAction) {
               throw new \InvalidArgumentException(sprintf('Producer only supports "%s" messages.', ImportantAction::class));
           }

           $this->mailer->send(
               (new \Swift_Message('Important action made'))
                   ->setTo($this->toEmail)
                   ->setBody(
                       '<h1>Important action</h1><p>Made by '.$message->getUsername().'</p>',
                       'text/html'
                   )
           );
       }
    }

Your own receiver
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A receiver is responsible for receiving messages from a source and dispatching
them to the application.

> Let's say you already processed some "orders" in your application using a

Reviewer: Same here with the "let's"

``NewOrder`` message. Now you want to integrate with a 3rd party or a legacy
application but you can't use an API and need to use a shared CSV file with new
orders.

You will read this CSV file and dispatch a ``NewOrder`` message. All you need to

> do is to write your custom CSV receiver and Symfony will do the rest.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
do is to write your custom CSV receiver and Symfony will do the rest::
```

> First, create your receiver::

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

```

    namespace App\MessageReceiver;

    use App\Message\NewOrder;
    use Symfony\Component\Messenger\Transport\ReceiverInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Serializer\SerializerInterface;

    class NewOrdersFromCsvFile implements ReceiverInterface
    {
       private $serializer;

>        private $filePath;

Reviewer 4: I prefer:

```diff
- $filePath
+ $filepath
```

Author: @OskarStark there no `$filepath` variable in symfony docs, only `$filePath`, so let's leave as it is

       public function __construct(SerializerInteface $serializer, string $filePath)
       {
           $this->serializer = $serializer;
           $this->filePath = $filePath;
       }

>        public function receive(callable $handler) : void

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
       public function receive(callable $handler)
```

or is the `: void` part of the interface?

Author: @OskarStark there is code changes in closed PR with `:void`
https://github.com/symfony/symfony/pull/27008/files#diff-28db5c7ca1e1eca1623ad72ddd29b268L38

Reviewer 2: @OskarStark It's ok to add a return type hint even if it isn't in the interface. I'd even say it is recommended for static analysis.

Reviewer 4: I know but O am not sure how we handle this in docs in general 🤔

Ping @symfony/team-symfony-docs

Reviewer 5: Wait, isn’t receive gone from the interface now? I think it’s get()

       {
           $ordersFromCsv = $this->serializer->deserialize(file_get_contents($this->filePath), 'csv');

           foreach ($ordersFromCsv as $orderFromCsv) {
               $handler(new NewOrder($orderFromCsv['id'], $orderFromCsv['account_id'], $orderFromCsv['amount']));
           }
       }

>        public function stop(): void

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
       public function stop()
```

or is the `: void` part of the interface?

Author: the same for `stop(): void`

       {
           // noop
       }
    }

Create your Transport Factory
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You need to give FrameworkBundle the opportunity to create your transport from a

> DSN. You will need an transport factory::

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
DSN. You will need a transport factory::
```

    use Symfony\Component\Messenger\Transport\TransportFactoryInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Messenger\Transport\TransportInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Messenger\Transport\ReceiverInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Messenger\Transport\SenderInterface;

    class YourTransportFactory implements TransportFactoryInterface
    {
        public function createTransport(string $dsn, array $options): TransportInterface
        {
            return new YourTransport(/* ... */);
        }

        public function supports(string $dsn, array $options): bool
        {
            return 0 === strpos($dsn, 'my-transport://');
        }
    }

The transport object is needs to implements the ``TransportInterface`` (which simply combine
the ``SenderInterface`` and ``ReceiverInterface``). It will look
like this::

    class YourTransport implements TransportInterface
    {

>         public function send($message) : void

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        public function send($message)
```

or does it come from the interface?

Reviewer 3: The method in the `SenderInterface` looks like this:

```php
public function send(Envelope $envelope): Envelope;
```

        {
            // ...
        }

>         public function receive(callable $handler) : void

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        public function receive(callable $handler)
```

or does it come from the interface?

        {
            // ...
        }

>         public function stop() : void

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        public function stop()
```

or does it come from the interface?
